Hello and welcome back to the course on
R programming. Another section behind
your belt and this time it was a very
important section fundamentals of R
programming. So very important because
everything you learn to this section
will be crucial to you not only
completing this course, but also
performing all of your work in the
future in R because understanding the
tool that you're working with is very
very important.
Alright so in this section we learned:
first of all, what is a vector? So we
talked about vectors and we saw that
vectors are basically sequence of
elements and that sequence can have a
little a few number of elements or it can
have a lot of elements but the important
thing is that all those elements have to
be of the same type, so they can either
be all integers or they can all be
doubles or they can be boolean elements
or they can be character elements but
the main point is that within 1 vector
you cannot mix different types of
elements and that's a very important
fundamental underlying principle of R.
Ok next we created some vectors, we
looked at three functions. We talked
about the C-function which stands for
combined. We talk about the Seq-function,
which stands for sequence and the Rep-
function which stands for replicate. So
we used all those functions to create
different types of vectors and of course
the most popular one is probably the C
function. You'll be using that one a lot
in your work with R and we'll be using it all
the time in this course as well. Then we
learned a few other functions that we
talked about that is numeric function, is
integer, is double, is characters. So all of
those function basically allows to check
what kind of vector we have in front of
us because remember a vector can only
have one type of elements inside so
therefore it's very easy to check what
the vector is that cannot be a mix of
different elements so if it's a
numeric element, vector that means all
of the elements inside that vector are
numeric and notice here that we already
working very actively with functions
even though we haven't covered the topic
or by then we hadn't covered the topic
of functions
yet and that's because it's very easy to
work with functions as we saw throughout
this section. Then we learned about using
the square brackets
and how to access every individual
element of a vector was pretty simple.
You just have to type in the sequential
number of that element and you'll get
that element back.
Moreover, inside the square brackets you can
pass on other vectors which will give
you several elements of that vector. You
can pass negative numbers to exclude
certain elements and so on. So we
experimented with that and another thing
that we learned in this section was that
in R everything is a vector so even a
single variable something that we called
variables in the previous section
actually those variables are also vector
so if you have a variable of one element
that is just a vector of one element and
that is just how this programming
language is constructed so that is that
one little secret of R. Next we talked
about vectorized operations, here we
learned the difference between
vectorized and devectorized operations
and also we talked about recycling of
vectors, so once again a very
important tutorial that was kind of a
theoretical tutorial and then we moved on
to the power of vectorized operations where we
actually conducted an experiment so
there first we as you recall we learned to
the two different types of for loop, so
one for loop, the R specific for loop
where the index variable is cycling
through the vector itself and the other
one, the conventional for loop where
the index variable is cycling through
just the numbers 1,2,3,4,5 and so on. So
we needed that information to conduct
our experiments where we had one
vectorized operation where we were just
multiplying two vectors of 10 million
random numbers and the other one the
devectorized operation where we're
doing the same multiplication but
through a loop and as we could tell, there
were three main advantages of the
vectorized operation first of all, it it was
shorter so therefore it took less to
code, less time so that's time-saving. It
was shorter so therefore it looked better
so that's uhmm aesthetics of your code
and finally it actually took less time
to execute and then we went into a bit
of detail why that is in R and that is
because R is
a high-level programming language and it
outsources or delegates a lot of its
operations to lower level programming
languages like C and fortran in the
background so therefore it's much more
preferred to create vectorized
operations in R because they have all
those advantages over devectorized
operations. Very important tutorial, very
important information to remember when
working with R and then we talked
about functions in R. Finally, we got
to the tutorial where we actually
discussed how functions work and we use
the example of a blender so in a blender
you put in fruit and you get a smoothie.
In functions, you also put in something
into the function and you get some
output from the function. That's what
basically they're there for.
They're there to help you achieve a
certain task and then we talked about
packages in R. So packages in R
allow you to expand the functions that
are available to use. So the functions
and sometimes even data, also in those
tutorials we talked about the question mark operator
which allows you to bring up the help
about a certain function or a certain
object in R which then gives you more
information so you can comfortably
use it without any issues and also we
talked about the cran repository and
what it is and why all the packages are
most of the packages you're downloading
coming from a cran.
There we go, that's our recap for this
section. I hope you enjoyed the tutorials
here. As always remember to do the quiz
at the end of the section, it will help
you perform a quick self-assessment and
once again I have prepared a very
exciting challenge for you to have a
look at and practice some additional
skills get some more hands-on time with
R and I look forward to seeing you
next time.
Until then, happy coding.